---
autogenerated:
title: Car Racing
---

# Car Racing

```{figure} ../../_static/videos/box2d/car_racing.gif
:width: 200px
:name: car_racing
```

This environment is part of the <a href='..'>Box2D environments</a>.Please read that page first for general information.

|   |   |
|---|---|
| Action Space | Box([-1.  0.  0.], 1.0, (3,), float32) |
| Observation Shape | (96, 96, 3) |
| Observation High | 255 |
| Observation Low | 0 |
| Import | `gymnasium.make("CarRacing-v2")` |


## Description
The easiest control task to learn from pixels - a top-down
racing environment. The generated track is random every episode.

Some indicators are shown at the bottom of the window along with the
state RGB buffer. From left to right: true speed, four ABS sensors,
steering wheel position, and gyroscope.
To play yourself (it's rather fast for humans), type:
```
python gymnasium/envs/box2d/car_racing.py
```
Remember: it's a powerful rear-wheel drive car - don't press the accelerator
and turn at the same time.

## Action Space
If continuous there are 3 actions :
- 0: steering, -1 is full left, +1 is full right
- 1: gas
- 2: breaking

If discrete there are 5 actions:
- 0: do nothing
- 1: steer left
- 2: steer right
- 3: gas
- 4: brake

## Observation Space

A top-down 96x96 RGB image of the car and race track.

## Rewards
The reward is -0.1 every frame and +1000/N for every track tile visited,
where N is the total number of tiles visited in the track. For example,
if you have finished in 732 frames, your reward is
1000 - 0.1*732 = 926.8 points.

## Starting State
The car starts at rest in the center of the road.

## Episode Termination
The episode finishes when all the tiles are visited. The car can also go
outside the playfield - that is, far off the track, in which case it will
receive -100 reward and die.

## Arguments
`lap_complete_percent` dictates the percentage of tiles that must be visited by
the agent before a lap is considered complete.

Passing `domain_randomize=True` enables the domain randomized variant of the environment.
In this scenario, the background and track colours are different on every reset.

Passing `continuous=False` converts the environment to use discrete action space.
The discrete action space has 5 actions: [do nothing, left, right, gas, brake].

## Reset Arguments
Passing the option `options["randomize"] = True` will change the current colour of the environment on demand.
Correspondingly, passing the option `options["randomize"] = False` will not change the current colour of the environment.
`domain_randomize` must be `True` on init for this argument to work.
Example usage:
```python
import gymnasium as gym
env = gym.make("CarRacing-v1", domain_randomize=True)

# normal reset, this changes the colour scheme by default
env.reset()

# reset with colour scheme change
env.reset(options={"randomize": True})

# reset with no colour scheme change
env.reset(options={"randomize": False})
```

## Version History
- v1: Change track completion logic and add domain randomization (0.24.0)
- v0: Original version

## References
- Chris Campbell (2014), http://www.iforce2d.net/b2dtut/top-down-car.

## Credits
Created by Oleg Klimov
