---
AUTOGENERATED: DO NOT EDIT FILE DIRECTLY
title: Lunar Lander
lastpage:
---

# Lunar Lander

```{figure} ../../_static/videos/box2d/lunar_lander.gif 
:width: 200px
:name: lunar_lander
```

This environment is part of the <a href='..'>Box2D environments</a>. Please read that page first for general information.

|   |   |
|---|---|
| Action Space | Discrete(4) |
| Observation Shape | (8,) |
| Observation High | [1.5  1.5  5.   5.   3.14 5.   1.   1.  ] |
| Observation Low | [-1.5  -1.5  -5.   -5.   -3.14 -5.   -0.   -0.  ] |
| Import | `gymnasium.make("LunarLander-v2")` | 


### Description
This environment is a classic rocket trajectory optimization problem.
According to Pontryagin's maximum principle, it is optimal to fire the
engine at full throttle or turn it off. This is the reason why this
environment has discrete actions: engine on or off.

There are two environment versions: discrete or continuous.
The landing pad is always at coordinates (0,0). The coordinates are the
first two numbers in the state vector.
Landing outside of the landing pad is possible. Fuel is infinite, so an agent
can learn to fly and then land on its first attempt.

To see a heuristic landing, run:
```
python gymnasium/envs/box2d/lunar_lander.py
```
<!-- To play yourself, run: -->
<!-- python examples/agents/keyboard_agent.py LunarLander-v2 -->

### Action Space
There are four discrete actions available: do nothing, fire left
orientation engine, fire main engine, fire right orientation engine.

### Observation Space
The state is an 8-dimensional vector: the coordinates of the lander in `x` & `y`, its linear
velocities in `x` & `y`, its angle, its angular velocity, and two booleans
that represent whether each leg is in contact with the ground or not.

### Rewards
Reward for moving from the top of the screen to the landing pad and coming
to rest is about 100-140 points.
If the lander moves away from the landing pad, it loses reward.
If the lander crashes, it receives an additional -100 points. If it comes
to rest, it receives an additional +100 points. Each leg with ground
contact is +10 points.
Firing the main engine is -0.3 points each frame. Firing the side engine
is -0.03 points each frame. Solved is 200 points.

### Starting State
The lander starts at the top center of the viewport with a random initial
force applied to its center of mass.

### Episode Termination
The episode finishes if:
1) the lander crashes (the lander body gets in contact with the moon);
2) the lander gets outside of the viewport (`x` coordinate is greater than 1);
3) the lander is not awake. From the [Box2D docs](https://box2d.org/documentation/md__d_1__git_hub_box2d_docs_dynamics.html#autotoc_md61),
    a body which is not awake is a body which doesn't move and doesn't
    collide with any other body:
> When Box2D determines that a body (or group of bodies) has come to rest,
> the body enters a sleep state which has very little CPU overhead. If a
> body is awake and collides with a sleeping body, then the sleeping body
> wakes up. Bodies will also wake up if a joint or contact attached to
> them is destroyed.

### Arguments
To use to the _continuous_ environment, you need to specify the
`continuous=True` argument like below:
```python
import gymnasium
env = gymnasium.make(
    "LunarLander-v2",
    continuous: bool = False,
    gravity: float = -10.0,
    enable_wind: bool = False,
    wind_power: float = 15.0,
    turbulence_power: float = 1.5,
)
```
If `continuous=True` is passed, continuous actions (corresponding to the throttle of the engines) will be used and the
action space will be `Box(-1, +1, (2,), dtype=np.float32)`.
The first coordinate of an action determines the throttle of the main engine, while the second
coordinate specifies the throttle of the lateral boosters.
Given an action `np.array([main, lateral])`, the main engine will be turned off completely if
`main < 0` and the throttle scales affinely from 50% to 100% for `0 <= main <= 1` (in particular, the
main engine doesn't work  with less than 50% power).
Similarly, if `-0.5 < lateral < 0.5`, the lateral boosters will not fire at all. If `lateral < -0.5`, the left
booster will fire, and if `lateral > 0.5`, the right booster will fire. Again, the throttle scales affinely
from 50% to 100% between -1 and -0.5 (and 0.5 and 1, respectively).

`gravity` dictates the gravitational constant, this is bounded to be within 0 and -12.

If `enable_wind=True` is passed, there will be wind effects applied to the lander.
The wind is generated using the function `tanh(sin(2 k (t+C)) + sin(pi k (t+C)))`.
`k` is set to 0.01.
`C` is sampled randomly between -9999 and 9999.

`wind_power` dictates the maximum magnitude of linear wind applied to the craft. The recommended value for `wind_power` is between 0.0 and 20.0.
`turbulence_power` dictates the maximum magnitude of rotational wind applied to the craft. The recommended value for `turbulence_power` is between 0.0 and 2.0.

### Version History
- v2: Count energy spent and in v0.24, added turbulance with wind power and turbulence_power parameters
- v1: Legs contact with ground added in state vector; contact with ground
    give +10 reward points, and -10 if then lose contact; reward
    renormalized to 200; harder initial random push.
- v0: Initial version

<!-- ### References -->

### Credits
Created by Oleg Klimov
